# Installing software requirements
## Option 1: Build the Docker image using the Dockerfile
First, clone the database and build the Docker image. Only the Dockerfile is need to build the image, and could instead be downloaded directly using the github web interface; the git protocol does not support directly downloading individual files.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/MichaelHoltonPrice/past_as_stoch_proc_code
cd past_as_stoch_proc_code
docker build -t michaelholtonprice/past_stoch_proc .
```

Start a container. Use the -v tag to mirror a directory for passing files between the host machine and the Docker container. The directory to the left of the semicolon is for the host machine and the directory to the right of the semicolon is for the Docker container.

```bash
docker run --name past_stoch_proc -itv //c/Users/mpatm/past_stoch_proc_data:/data michaelholtonprice/past_stoch_proc
```

If desired, one can start a Docker container without mirroring the data directory with the following command:

```bash
docker run --name past_stoch_proc -it michaelholtonprice/past_stoch_proc
```

## Option 2: Use a Docker image from Docker Hub

```bash
docker pull michaelholtonprice/past_stoch_proc
```

Start a Docker container with a mirrored directory on the host (see above under Option 1):

```bash
docker run --name past_stoch_proc -itv //c/Users/mpatm/past_stoch_proc_data:/data michaelholtonprice/past_stoch_proc
```

Start a Docker container without a mirrored directory on the host (see above under Option 1):

```bash
docker run --name past_stoch_proc -it michaelholtonprice/past_stoch_proc
```

## Option 3: Run on an existing machine. R 3.5 or later is needed. Details will vary based on the machine and operating system. The following should work with Ubuntu or another Debian Linux flavor that uses APT (Advanced Package Protocol).

Clone the repository and enter the newly created directory:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/MichaelHoltonPrice/past_as_stoch_proc_code
cd past_as_stoch_proc_code
```

If necessary, install R (>=3.5.0). The following shell script in the cloned directory can be used. It must be given execution permissions:
```bash
sudo chmod +x ./install_R.sh
sudo ./install_R.sh
```

Install R dependencies:
```bash
sudo Rscript install_R_dependencies.R
```

Install the Python dependencies. It is assumed that python3 and pip3 are already installed on the system.

```bash
cd ..
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

# Running the code
The following steps assume the user starts in the past_as_stoch_proc_code directory, and the steps to run the code are identical regardless of which option above is used to satisfy the software requirements.

Enter the mhg_code directory and run the main analysis script to generate data for Figure S2. See below for a summary of the moralizing gods code.

```bash
cd mhg_code
Rscript '!MoralizingGods.R'
```

Check the data against those in the 2019 Nature paper by Whitehouse et al.:
```bash
Rscript check_moralising_gods_status.R
```

The data are not identical for the DoctrinalMode variable for two NGAs, Middle Yellow River Valley and Orkhon Valley. It's unclear what causes this discrepancy. However, only the MoralisingGods data are used in our article (the Doctrinal Mode data are not used).

Return to the past_as_stoch_proc_code directory and run the Python script to make the publication figures.

```bash
cd ..
python3 make_figures.py
```

If using a Docker container with a mirrored directory on the host machine (see above), one can copy folders into the /data directory to view them on the host machine. For example, to copy the four figures generated by make_figures.py use:

```bash
cp /past_as_stoch_proc_code/*.pdf /data
```

# Notes on the moralizing gods code
I (Michael Holton Price / MHP) started with the code in the following repository:

https://github.com/pesavage/moralizing-gods

However, the code in that repository uses hard-coded home directories of the authors and the main script, !MoralizingGods.R, overwrites some necessary, starting .csv files with new data as it runs. The script clean_csv.R, which I have added to !MoralizingGods.R, handles this problem by deleting all .csv files in the mhg_code directory and copying in the original files from the directory mhg_code/starting_csv. When editing original code files from https://github.com/pesavage/moralizing-gods, I have marked my edits with my initials, MHP.

The exact commit of the github repository https://github.com/pesavage/moralizing-gods that I started with is bb63a09218ffb4e1723fa3a6e3da30baa0571cb1. While this is no longer the latest commit, using this earlier commit is fine because the results of the code I have provided match those in Whitehouse et al. (2019) for the MoralisingGods variable that we use in our article.
